The project aims at designing an advanced home automation system using normal web
server and Wi-Fi technology. The devices can be switched ON/OFF and sensors can be read
usinga Personal Computer (PC) through Wi-Fi. Automation is the most frequently spelled term
in the field of electronics.
The hunger for automation brought many revolutions in the existing
technologies. These had greater importance than any other technologies due to its user-friendly
nature.
These can be used as a replacement of the existing switches in home which produces
sparks and also results infare accidents in few situations. Considering the advantages of Wi-Fi
anadvanced automation system was developed to control the appliances in the house. Wi-Fi 
(Shortfor Wireless Fidelity) is a wireless technology that uses radio frequency to transmit data 
through the air. Wi-Fi has initial speeds of 1mbps to 2mbps.
Wi-Fi transmits data in the frequency band of 2.5 GHz. It implements the concept of frequency division multiplexing technology.
Range of Wi-Fi technology is 50-300 feet. The controlling device for the 
automation in the project is an Arduino UNO.
The data sent from PC over Wi-Fi will be 
received by Wi-Fi module connected to Arduino UNO.
Arduino UNO reads the data and decides the switching action of electrical devices connected to it through Relays.
The main objective of this project is to develop a home control system using Node MCU
board with Internet being remotely controlled by any Android or IOS operating system. As
technology is advancing so houses are also getting smarter. Modern houses are gradually shifting
from conventional switches to centralized controlsystem, involving remote controlled switches.
Presently, conventional wall switches located in different parts of the house makes it difficult for
the user to go near them to operate. Even more it becomes more difficult for the elderly or
physically handicapped people to do so. Remote controlled home automation system provides a
most modern solution with smart phones.

